---
layout: default
title:  "VVV 3.5.1"
date:   2020-10-023 20:00:00 -0000
author: mte90
---

The new ([v3.5.1](https://github.com/Varying-Vagrant-Vagrants/VVV/releases/tag/3.5.1) it is for us a huge improvements about code organization but also on testing side. The `develop` branch has now moved to `3.6.0` in preparation for a `3.6.1` release in several months time.

## 3.5.1

This release introduce a new Vagrant plugin developed by us (but is available to everyone), [vagrant-goodhosts](https://github.com/goodhosts/vagrant/). This vagrant plugin started as fork of [vagrant-hostsupdater](https://github.com/agiledivider/vagrant-hostsupdater) and is a wrapper of [GoodHosts CLI](https://github.com/goodhosts/cli/) that improve the support for the various OS and is updated compared to the other vagrant plugins for hosts file management. To get more information  you can check the article dedicated on [daniele.tech](https://daniele.tech/2020/06/vagrant-goodhosts-manage-the-hosts-file-with-vagrant-in-2020/).

Another huge step forward to auto tests with GitHub Action is provided with this release that include a major refactor for various scripts and provisioner to have a better code organization. Now any pull requests to VVV is automatically tested but we didn't finished yet and there are other things to do on this side to get the project runnable also on other tools like Docker.

### Enhancements

* Cleaned up leftover `nvm` removal code from main provisioner ( #2185 )
* Added support for `vagrant-goodhosts`, we recommend using this in the future instead of `vagrant-hostsupdater`
* Added `box-cleanup.sh` and `box-minimize.sh` scripts. Run these before creating a vagrant box to reduce disk size. These are only intended for box file creation.
* Prevent use of sudo vagrant up ( #2215 )
* Major refactor of the main provisioner, and introduction of a hook system to be used while provisioning ( #2230, #2238 )
* Support for cloning git repositories into sites via `config.yml` ( #2247 )
* Install WP-CLI doctor package ( #2051 )
* Enhanced database backup terminal output ( #2256 ) 
* Sites with no `hosts` defined will now default to `{sitename}.test` ( #2267 ) 

### Deprecations

* SVN repository upgrade searches have been moved to a utility. Previous versions of VVV would search 5 folders deep for svn repositories that needed upgrading. If  you still need this, add the `svn-folder-upgrade` core utility. This change can speed up provisioning by 5-10+ seconds on large installations.
* In the future the dashboard options will be deprecated. Custom dashboards should instead use site provisioners, allowing them to run provisioners, make custom Nginx configs, and have multiple dashboards if desired.

### Bug Fixes

* Fix mysql root password reset ( #2182 )
* Fix empty string yml value reading on site provisioner ( #2201 )
* Fixed an issue preventing backups of databases whose names contained reserved words ( #2213 )
* Remove APT list files and switch compression type defaults for repositories to avoid hash mismatch ( #2208 )
* In case the previous provisioning had some issues with dpkg on a new provision `dpkg --configure -a` is executed as default ( #2211 )
* Fixed provision-site.sh syntax errors on fail situations ( #2231 )
* Dashboard cloning is now more reliable ( #2243 )

[Check out the changelog for more details on what changed in VVV 3.5](https://github.com/Varying-Vagrant-Vagrants/VVV/blob/stable/CHANGELOG.md)

## Provisioners and Utilities

Our utilities and site templates run on a continuous release process. Here's a quick update of what changed since VVV 3.5.0.

### Custom-site-template

- `wp-cli.yml` now include aliases to be able to access the VM with WP-CLI itself
- `public_html` folder can be customized with a parameter

[Check the readme for all the features](https://github.com/Varying-Vagrant-Vagrants/custom-site-template/)!

### Custom-site-template-develop

- Improved gitignore

Check the readme for [all the features](https://github.com/Varying-Vagrant-Vagrants/custom-site-template-develop/)!

### Utilities

- Graphviz is now an utility
- Opcache-Gui is an alternative to opcache-status that is abandoned
- PHP-80 is avalaible
- Tideways utility was updated to support the latest XhGUI version
- Nvm utility added
- SVN-Folder_upgrade to migrate old SVN instances to git

## Documentation

- Improved docs about provisioners
- Added new external utility on doc about WordMove integration

## VVV Slack

We have a Slack Workspace! This is a great place to get help/support, ask quick questions, or watch VVV being developed. ([Find out more about the VVV Slack](https://varyingvagrantvagrants.org/docs/en-US/slack/).
